Adding Compass integration docs (#256)
launchdarkly/LaunchDarkly-Docs: src/content/topics/integrations/more/compass.mdx

---
path: /integrations/compass
title: Compass

> description: This topic explains visualize LaunchDarkly feature flag changes in Atlassian Compass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: This topic explains how to use the Compass integration for LaunchDarkly.
```
The description should match the first sentence in the Overview section. Feel free to include something about visualizing feature flag changes if you'd like that in both places.

published: true
---

> <Callout intent="primary">
> <CalloutTitle>The Compass integration is a Pro and Enterprise feature</CalloutTitle>
> <CalloutDescription>
> 
> The Compass integration is available to customers on a Pro or Enterprise plan. To learn more, [read about our pricing](https://launchdarkly.com/pricing/). To upgrade your plan, [contact Sales](https://launchdarkly.com/contact-sales/).
> 
> </CalloutDescription>
> </Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Callout intent="primary">
  <CalloutTitle>The Compass integration is a Pro and Enterprise feature</CalloutTitle>
  <CalloutDescription>

  The Compass integration is available to customers on a Pro or Enterprise plan. To learn more, [read about our pricing](https://launchdarkly.com/pricing/). To upgrade your plan, [contact Sales](https://launchdarkly.com/contact-sales/).

  </CalloutDescription>
</Callout>
```
The callout is a custom component we built, and it's pretty finicky about whitespace. This edit, and the similar ones below, just ensure the component builds and displays as intended. Here's a screenshot from my local build of your branch to confirm: 

<img width="620" alt="callouts after whitespace edits" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1653043/161335817-852f3cbc-39d2-4d93-ad30-9336fa1d4773.png">

## Overview

This topic explains how to use the Compass integration for LaunchDarkly.

> <Callout intent="info">
> <CalloutTitle>The Compass integration is managed by Atlassian</CalloutTitle>
> <CalloutDescription>
> 
> The Compass integration was built by and is managed by Atlassian. For questions about the integration or for technical support, [contact Atlassian](https://community.atlassian.com/t5/Compass-Alpha/gh-p/compass-alpha).
> 
> </CalloutDescription>
> </Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Callout intent="info">
  <CalloutTitle>The Compass integration is managed by Atlassian</CalloutTitle>
  <CalloutDescription>

  The Compass integration was built by and is managed by Atlassian. For questions about the integration or for technical support, [contact Atlassian](https://community.atlassian.com/t5/Compass-Alpha/gh-p/compass-alpha).

  </CalloutDescription>
</Callout>
```
whitespace only

The Compass integration for LaunchDarkly displays a timeline of feature flag changes related to a Compass component, as well as a complete list of feature flags and their current state. This helps you visualize how recent changes to feature flags may be impacting component health.

## Prerequisites

To connect Compass to LaunchDarkly, you must meet the following prerequisites:

> 1. Be a Compass administrator on your Atlassian site

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Be a Compass administrator on your Atlassian site.
```

> 2. Generate a LaunchDarkly [API access token](/home/account-security/api-access-tokens) for use with Compass.
> * Create a token with the **Reader** role.
> * If you are on an Enterprise plan, check the **This is a service token** option when creating your acesss token.
> * If you are on a Pro plan, leave this option unchecked.
> * Be sure to copy the new token to your clipboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Have a LaunchDarkly [API access token](/home/account-security/api-access-tokens) for use with Compass. To generate a token:
* Create a token with the **Reader** role.
* If you are on an Enterprise plan, check the **This is a service token** option when creating your access token.
* If you are on a Pro plan, leave this option unchecked.
* Be sure to copy the new token and save it somewhere secure.
```

## Setting up the Compass integration

> The Compass integration is managed from the Compass product on your Atlassian Cloud site. Other than creating an API access token, there are no Compass settings or preferences to configure in LaunchDarkly.
> 
> 1. Generate a LaunchDarkly API access token as described in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Compass integration is managed from the Compass product on your Atlassian Cloud site. Other than creating an API access token, there are no Compass settings or preferences to configure in LaunchDarkly.

Here's how to set up your Compass integration:

1. Generate a LaunchDarkly API access token as described in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section.
```

We typically introduce each procedure with a short stem sentence to be explicit about exactly what the procedure is doing.

> 2. Go to your Atlassian Compass site, e.g. https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Go to your Atlassian Compass site, for example, `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
```

> 3. In the top nagivation, click the **Apps** link.
> 4. Find **LaunchDarkly** in the list of apps and click the **Install** button.
> 5. After the LaunchDakly app is installed, click the **Configure** button.
> 6. Click the **Allow access** button to approve the access to your Atlassian account requested by the LaunchDarkly app.
> 7. On the **LaunchDarkly is requesting Access** screen, review the requested permissions, then click the **Accept** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the top navigation, click the **Apps** link.
4. Find **LaunchDarkly** in the list of apps and click **Install**.
5. After the LaunchDakly app is installed, click **Configure**.
6. Click **Allow access** to approve the access to your Atlassian account requested by the LaunchDarkly app.
7. On the **LaunchDarkly is requesting Access** screen, review the requested permissions, then click **Accept**.
```

> <Callout intent="info">
> <CalloutTitle>You must authorize the requested permissions for the integration to work</CalloutTitle>
> <CalloutDescription>
> 
> If you click **Cancel**, the integration cannot access your Compass data.
> 
> </CalloutDescription>
> </Callout>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Callout intent="info">
  <CalloutTitle>You must authorize the requested permissions for the integration to work</CalloutTitle>
  <CalloutDescription>

  If you click **Cancel**, the integration cannot access your Compass data.

  </CalloutDescription>
</Callout>
```
whitespace only

![LaunchDarkly authorization screen for Compass](compass-ld-integration-auth-dialog.png)

> 8. On the app configuration screen, paste your LaunchDarkly API access token and click the **Submit** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. On the app configuration screen, paste your LaunchDarkly API access token and click **Submit**.
```

![LaunchDarkly access token screen for Compass](compass-ld-integration-access-token.png)

9. Confirm that the integration has connected LaunchDarkly and Compass when the **Connected to LaunchDarkly** success message is displayed.

![Successfully connected Compass to LaunchDarkly](compass-ld-integration-connected.png)

## Connecting Compass components to LaunchDarkly

> Now that you've set up the Compass integration for Compass, you must conncet your LaunchDarkly projects to Compass components in order to see feature flag data in Compass.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you've set up the Compass integration for Compass, you must connect your LaunchDarkly projects to Compass components to see feature flag data in Compass.
```

To connect a LaunchDarkly project to a Compass component:

1. In LaunchDarkly, navigate to the **Feature flags** page for the project you want to connect.

> 2. Copy the project URL, e.g. https://app.launchdarkly.com/starship-command/production/features, to your clipboard.
> 3. Navigate to your Compass site, e.g. https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Copy the project URL, for example, `https://app.launchdarkly.com/starship-command/production/features`, to your clipboard.
3. Navigate to your Compass site, for example, `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
```

4. Navigate to the Compass component you want to connect to LaunchDarkly.

> 5. In the **Other links** section of your Compass component, paste the LaunchDarkly project URL as a new link.

Reviewer 3: Per [this conversation](https://launchdarkly.slack.com/archives/C01HCMH33JM/p1649017618030749) we should update this line to be specific about linking to the project and environment.

6. Verify that the component was successfully connected by clicking on the **LaunchDarkly** tab in the left navigation.

![Successfully connected Compass component to LaunchDarkly](compass-ld-integration-component-connected.png)

7. Repeat the above steps to associate your other LaunchDarkly projects to the applicable Compass components.

## Viewing feature flag information for a Compass component

> Once you have connected your Compass components to LaunchDarkly, you can view feature flag information on the component page in Compass.
> 
> 1. Navigate to your Compass site, e.g. https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have connected your Compass components to LaunchDarkly, you can view feature flag information on the component page in Compass.

Here's how:

1. Navigate to your Compass site, for example, `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
```

2. Navigate to the Compass component for which you want to view feature flag information.
3. Make sure you have completed the steps in [Connecting Compass components to LaunchDarkly](#connecting-compass-components-to-launchdarkly).
4. Click on the **LaunchDarkly** tab in the left navigation.

### Recent feature flag changes for a connected Compass component

You can see a history of recent feature flag changes for the associated LaunchDarkly project on the **Recently updated** subtab.
* Click the dot next to each item to see more details about the feature flag change.
* Click the feature flag name to view the feature flag in LaunchDarkly.

> ![Recently feature flag changes](compass-ld-integration-recently-updated.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Recently updated feature flag displayed in Compass](compass-ld-integration-recently-updated.png)
```

Reviewer 2: Also add punctuation at the end.

### All feature flags for a connected Compass component

> You can see a list of all feature flags for the associated LaunchDarkly project on the **All feature flags** subtab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can view a list of all feature flags for the associated LaunchDarkly project on the **All feature flags** subtab.
```

> * Use the **Filter by status** dropdown to filter the list of flags displayed in the list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Use the **Filter by status** dropdown to filter the list of flags displayed in the list.
```

* Click the column headings above the list to sort by the **Flag**, **Status** or **Last requested** column.
* Click the feature flag name to view the feature flag in LaunchDarkly.

> ![All feature flags](compass-ld-integration-all-feature-flags.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![All feature flags displayed in Compass](compass-ld-integration-all-feature-flags.png)
```

Reviewer 2: Also add punctuation at the end.

## Disconnecting Compass components from LaunchDarkly

The connection between a LaunchDarkly project and a Compass component is stored as a link on the Compass component, as described in the [Connecting Compass components to LaunchDarkly](#connecting-compass-components-to-launchdarkly) section. If desired, you can remove this connection on the Compass component page.

> 
> 1. Navigate to your Compass site, e.g. https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Here's how: 

1. Navigate to your Compass site, for example `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
```

> 2. Navigate to the Compass component you want to connect to LaunchDarkly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to the Compass component you want to disconnect from LaunchDarkly.
```
I think update fixes a copy-paste error, but please check this for accuracy! Thanks.

3. In the **Other links** section of your Compass component, remove the LaunchDarkly project link.
4. Verify that the component was successfully disconnected by clicking on the **LaunchDarkly** tab in the left navigation. You should no longer see feature flag information on this tab.

## Disconnecting your API access token

> The Compass integration stores your LaunchDarkly API access token (as described in the [Setting up the Compass integration](#setting-up-the-compass-integration)) section) to read data from the LaunchDarkly API. If you need to cycle your LaunchDarkly access token, or if you want to connect Compass to a different LaunchDarkly organization, you can disconnect your access token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Compass integration stores your LaunchDarkly API access token to read data from the LaunchDarkly API, as described in the [Setting up the Compass integration](#setting-up-the-compass-integration)) section. If you need to cycle your LaunchDarkly access token, or if you want to connect Compass to a different LaunchDarkly organization, you can disconnect your access token.

Here's how:
```

> 1. Go to your Atlassian Compass site, e.g. https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass.
> 2. In the top nagivation, click the **Apps** link.
> 3. Find **LaunchDarkly** in the list of apps and click the **Configure** button.
> 4. Click the **Disconnect access token** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to your Atlassian Compass site, for example `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
2. In the top navigation, click the **Apps** link.
3. Find **LaunchDarkly** in the list of apps and click **Configure**.
4. Click **Disconnect access token**.
```

5. You can now provide Compass with a new access token if desired.

## Removing the Compass integration

To remove the Compass integration:

> 1. Go to your Atlassian Compass site, e.g. https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass.
> 2. In the top nagivation, click the **Apps** link.
> 3. Find **LaunchDarkly** in the list of apps and click the **Uninstall** button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to your Atlassian Compass site, for example `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
2. In the top navigation, click the **Apps** link.
3. Find **LaunchDarkly** in the list of apps and click **Uninstall**.
```

  The Compass integration is available to customers on a Pro or Enterprise plan. To learn more, [read about our pricing](https://launchdarkly.com/pricing/). To upgrade your plan, [contact Sales](https://launchdarkly.com/contact-sales/).

  </CalloutDescription>
</Callout>

## Overview

This topic explains how to use the Compass integration for LaunchDarkly.

<Callout intent="info">
  <CalloutTitle>The Compass integration is managed by Atlassian</CalloutTitle>
  <CalloutDescription>

  The Compass integration was built by and is managed by Atlassian. For questions about the integration or for technical support, [contact Atlassian](https://community.atlassian.com/t5/Compass-Alpha/gh-p/compass-alpha).

  </CalloutDescription>
</Callout>

The Compass integration for LaunchDarkly displays a timeline of feature flag changes related to a Compass component, as well as a complete list of feature flags and their current state. This helps you visualize how recent changes to feature flags may be impacting component health.

## Prerequisites

To connect Compass to LaunchDarkly, you must meet the following prerequisites:

* Be a Compass administrator on your Atlassian site.

> * Have a LaunchDarkly [API access token](/home/account-security/api-access-tokens) for use with Compass. To generate a token:
>   * Create a token with the **Reader** role.
>   * If you are on an Enterprise plan, check the **This is a service token** option when creating your access token.
>   * If you are on a Pro plan, leave this option unchecked.
>   * Be sure to copy the new token and save it somewhere secure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Have a LaunchDarkly API access token for use with Compass. To learn more, read [Creating API access tokens](/home/account-security/api-access-tokens#creating-api-access-tokens).

To generate an API token for use with Compass:

1. Create a token with the **Reader** role.
2. If you are on an Enterprise plan, check the **This is a service token** option when creating your access token. If you are on a Pro plan, leave this option unchecked.
3. Copy the new token and save it somewhere secure.
```

## Setting up the Compass integration

> The Compass integration is managed from the Compass product on your Atlassian Cloud site. Other than creating an API access token, there are no Compass settings or preferences to configure in LaunchDarkly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Compass integration is managed from the Atlassian Cloud site. Other than creating an API access token, there are no settings or preferences to configure in LaunchDarkly.
```

Here's how to set up your Compass integration:

1. Generate a LaunchDarkly API access token as described in the [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) section.

> 2. Go to your Atlassian Compass site, for example, `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
> 3. In the top navigation, click the **Apps** link.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to your Atlassian Compass site. For example, `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
3. In the top navigation, click **Apps**.
```

4. Find **LaunchDarkly** in the list of apps and click **Install**.
5. After the LaunchDakly app is installed, click **Configure**.

> 6. Click **Allow access** to approve the access to your Atlassian account requested by the LaunchDarkly app.
> 7. On the **LaunchDarkly is requesting Access** screen, review the requested permissions, then click **Accept**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Click **Allow access**. The "LaunchDarkly is requesting Access" screen appears.
7. Review the requested permissions, then click **Accept**.

![LaunchDarkly authorization screen for Compass.](compass-ld-integration-auth-dialog.png)
```

<Callout intent="info">
  <CalloutTitle>You must authorize the requested permissions for the integration to work</CalloutTitle>
  <CalloutDescription>

  If you click **Cancel**, the integration cannot access your Compass data.

  </CalloutDescription>
</Callout>

> ![LaunchDarkly authorization screen for Compass.](compass-ld-integration-auth-dialog.png)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: @ember-stevens I agree this image is probably unnecessary. I'll remove the png from the changeset.

> 8. On the app configuration screen, enter your LaunchDarkly API access token and click **Submit**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
8. Enter your LaunchDarkly API access token in the **Access token** field.
9. Click **Submit**.
```

![LaunchDarkly access token screen for Compass.](compass-ld-integration-access-token.png)

> 9. Confirm that the integration has connected LaunchDarkly and Compass when the **Connected to LaunchDarkly** success message is displayed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The integration has connected LaunchDarkly and Compass when the **Connected to LaunchDarkly** success message is displayed.
```

![Successfully connected Compass to LaunchDarkly.](compass-ld-integration-connected.png)

## Connecting Compass components to LaunchDarkly

> Now that you've set up the Compass integration for Compass, you must connect your LaunchDarkly projects to Compass components to see feature flag data in Compass.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you've set up the integration, you must connect your LaunchDarkly projects to Compass components to see feature flag data in Compass.
```

To connect a LaunchDarkly project to a Compass component:

1. In LaunchDarkly, navigate to the **Feature flags** page for the project you want to connect.

> 2. Copy the page URL, for example, `https://app.launchdarkly.com/starship-command/production/features`, to your clipboard. Note that the URL contains the project name and environment.
> 3. Navigate to your Compass site, for example, `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Copy the page URL to your clipboard. For example, `https://app.launchdarkly.com/starship-command/production/features`. The URL contains the project name and environment.
3. Navigate to your Compass site. For example, `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
```

4. Navigate to the Compass component you want to connect to LaunchDarkly.
5. In the **Other links** section of your Compass component, paste the LaunchDarkly URL as a new link.

> 6. Verify that the component was successfully connected by clicking on the **LaunchDarkly** tab in the left navigation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
6. Click on the **LaunchDarkly** tab in the left navigation to verify that the component was successfully connected.
```

![A successfully connected Compass component to LaunchDarkly.](compass-ld-integration-component-connected.png)

7. Repeat the above steps to associate your other LaunchDarkly projects to the applicable Compass components.

## Viewing feature flag information for a Compass component

Once you have connected your Compass components to LaunchDarkly, you can view feature flag information on the component page in Compass.

Here's how:

> 1. Navigate to your Compass site, for example, `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your Compass site. For example, `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
```

2. Navigate to the Compass component for which you want to view feature flag information.

> 3. Make sure you have completed the steps in [Connecting Compass components to LaunchDarkly](#connecting-compass-components-to-launchdarkly).
> 4. Click on the **LaunchDarkly** tab in the left navigation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Click on the **LaunchDarkly** tab in the left navigation.
```

* Click the dot next to each item to see more details about the feature flag change.
* Click the feature flag name to view the feature flag in LaunchDarkly.

![Recently updated feature flags displayed in Compass.](compass-ld-integration-recently-updated.png)

### All feature flags for a connected Compass component

You can view a list of all feature flags for the associated LaunchDarkly project on the **All feature flags** subtab.
* Use the **Filter by status** dropdown to filter the list of flags displayed in the list.
* Click the column headings above the list to sort by the **Flag**, **Status** or **Last requested** column.
* Click the feature flag name to view the feature flag in LaunchDarkly.

![All feature flags displayed in Compass.](compass-ld-integration-all-feature-flags.png)

## Disconnecting Compass components from LaunchDarkly

The connection between a LaunchDarkly project and a Compass component is stored as a link on the Compass component, as described in the [Connecting Compass components to LaunchDarkly](#connecting-compass-components-to-launchdarkly) section. If desired, you can remove this connection on the Compass component page.

Here's how: 

> 1. Navigate to your Compass site, for example `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your Compass site. For example `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
```

2. Navigate to the Compass component you want to disconnect from LaunchDarkly.
3. In the **Other links** section of your Compass component, remove the LaunchDarkly link.

> 4. Verify that the component was successfully disconnected by clicking on the **LaunchDarkly** tab in the left navigation. You should no longer see feature flag information on this tab.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verify that the component was successfully disconnected by clicking on the **LaunchDarkly** tab in the left navigation. You should no longer see feature flag information on this tab.
```

## Disconnecting your API access token

> The Compass integration stores your LaunchDarkly API access token to read data from the LaunchDarkly API, as described in the [Setting up the Compass integration](#setting-up-the-compass-integration)) section. If you need to cycle your LaunchDarkly access token, or if you want to connect Compass to a different LaunchDarkly organization, you can disconnect your access token.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Compass integration stores your LaunchDarkly API access token to read data from the LaunchDarkly API, as described in the [Setting up the Compass integration](#setting-up-the-compass-integration) section. If you need to cycle your LaunchDarkly access token, or if you want to connect Compass to a different LaunchDarkly organization, you can disconnect your access token.
```

Here's how:

> 1. Go to your Atlassian Compass site, for example `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open to your Atlassian Compass site. For example `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
```

2. In the top navigation, click the **Apps** link.
3. Find **LaunchDarkly** in the list of apps and click **Configure**.
4. Click **Disconnect access token**.
5. You can now provide Compass with a new access token if desired.

## Removing the Compass integration

To remove the Compass integration:

> 1. Go to your Atlassian Compass site, for example `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
> 2. In the top navigation, click the **Apps** link.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Open your Atlassian Compass site. For example `https://mysite.atlassian.net/compass`.
2. In the top navigation, click **Apps**.
```
